developer: refine create table document (#8676)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-create-table.md

> ## Defining columns

Author: ```suggestion
## Define columns
```

TiDB supports many other column data types, including the [integer types](/data-type-numeric.md#integer-types), [floating-point types](/data-type-numeric.md#floating-point-types), [fixed-point types](/data-type-numeric.md#fixed-point-types), [date and time types](/data-type-date-and-time.md), the [enum type](/data-type-string.md#enum-type). You can refer to the supported column [data types](/basic-features.md#data-types-functions-and-operators) and use the **data types** that match the data you want to save in the database.

> To make it a bit more complex, you can define a `books` table which will be the core of the `bookshop` data. The `books` table contains fields for the book's ids, titles, types (for example, magazine, novel, life, arts), stock, prices, and publication dates.

Author: ```suggestion
One step further, you can define a `books` table which will be the core of the `bookshop` data. The `books` table contains fields for the book's ids, titles, types (for example, magazine, novel, life, arts), stock, prices, and publication dates.
```

>
> TiDB supports clustering only by a table's `PRIMARY KEY`. With clustered indexes enabled, the terms _the_ `PRIMARY KEY` and _the clustered index_ might be used interchangeably. `PRIMARY KEY` refers to the constraint (a logical property), and clustered index describes the physical implementation of how the data is stored.

> Following the [guidelines for selecting clustered index](#guidelines-to-follow-when-selecting-clustered-index), the following example creates a table with an association between `books` and `users`, which represents the `ratings` of a `book` by `users`. The example creates the table and constructs a composite primary key using `book_id` and `user_id`, and creates a **clustered index** on that **primary key**.

Author: done

## Add column constraints

In addition to [primary key constraints](#select-primary-key), TiDB also supports other **column constraints** such as [NOT NULL](/constraints.md#not-null) constraint, [UNIQUE KEY](/constraints.md#unique-key) constraint, and `DEFAULT`. For complete constraints, refer to the [TiDB constraints](/constraints.md) document.

> ### Default value

Author: ```suggestion
### Set default value
```

> To set a default value on a column, use the `DEFAULT` constraint. The default value allows you to insert data without specifying a value for each column.

Author: done

);
```

## Use HTAP capabilities

> **Note:**
>
> The steps provided in this guide is **_ONLY_** for quick start in the test environment. For production environments, refer to [explore HTAP](/explore-htap.md).

Suppose that the `bookshop` application needs to perform OLAP analysis on the `ratings` table of user ratings, for example, to query: **whether the rating of a book has a significant correlation with the time of the rating**, which is to analyze whether the user's rating of the book is objective or not. Then you need to query the `score` and `rated_at` fields of the entire `ratings` table. This is a very resource-intensive operation for a normal OLTP-only database. Or you can use some ETL or other data synchronization tools to export the data from OLTP database to a dedicated OLAP database for analysis.

> In this scenario, TiDB is an ideal one-stop database solution. TiDB is a **HTAP (Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing)** database that supports both OLTP and OLAP scenarios.

Author: ```suggestion
In this scenario, TiDB, an **HTAP (Hybrid Transactional and Analytical Processing)** database that supports both OLTP and OLAP scenarios, is an ideal one-stop database solution.
```

ALTER TABLE {table_name} SET TIFLASH REPLICA {count};
```

**Parameter description**

- `{table_name}`: The table name.
- `{count}`: The number of synchronized replicas. If it is 0, the synchronized replicas are deleted.

> **TiFlash** will then synchronize the table. When a query is performed, TiDB will automatically consider using TiKV (row-based) or TiFlash (column-based) for the query based on cost optimization. Of course, in addition to the automatic approach, you can also directly specify whether the query uses a **TiFlash** replica. To learn how to specify it, refer to [Use TiDB to read TiFlash replicas](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#use-tidb-to-read-tiflash-replicas).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**TiFlash** will then replicate the table. When a query is performed, TiDB automatically selects TiKV (row-based) or TiFlash (column-based) for the query based on cost optimization. Alternatively, you can manually specify whether the query uses a **TiFlash** replica. To learn how to specify it, refer to [Use TiDB to read TiFlash replicas](/tiflash/use-tiflash.md#use-tidb-to-read-tiflash-replicas).
```

> **Note:**
>
> If your cluster does not contain **TiFlash** nodes, this SQL statement will report an error: `1105 - the tiflash replica count: 1 should be less than the total tiflash server count: 0`. You can use [Build a TiDB Cluster in TiDB Cloud (DevTier)](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md#step-1-create-a-free-cluster) to create a free cluster that includes **TiFlash**.

Then you can go on to perform the following query:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
SELECT HOUR(`rated_at`), AVG(`score`) FROM `bookshop`.`ratings` GROUP BY HOUR(`rated_at`);
```

> You can also use the [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](/common/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) statement to see whether this statement is using the **TiFlash**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also execute the [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) statement to see whether this statement is using the **TiFlash**:
```

+-----------------------------+-----------+---------+--------------+---------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+----------+------+
```

When the field `cop[tiflash]` appears, it means that the task is sent to **TiFlash** for processing.

## Execute the `CREATE TABLE` statement

> After creating all the tables according to the above examples, the [database initialization](/develop/dev-guide-bookshop-schema-design.md#database-initialization-script-dbinitsql) script should look like this. To see the table information in detail, refer to [Details about Table](/develop/dev-guide-bookshop-schema-design.md#details-about-table).

Reviewer: "script should look like this" 不清晰，中英文看看都优化一下。

> After creating all the tables according to the above examples, the [database initialization](/develop/dev-guide-bookshop-schema-design.md#database-initialization-script-dbinitsql) script should look like this. To see the table information in detail, refer to [Details about Table](/develop/dev-guide-bookshop-schema-design.md#details-about-table).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating all the tables according to the above examples, the [database initialization](/develop/dev-guide-bookshop-schema-design.md#database-initialization-script-dbinitsql) script should look like this. To see the table information in detail, refer to [Description of the tables](/develop/dev-guide-bookshop-schema-design.md#description-of-the-tables).
```

> To name the database initialization script `init.sql` and save it, you can use the following statement to perform the database initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To name the database initialization script `init.sql` and save it, you can execute the following statement to initialize the database.
```

    < init.sql
```

> To view all tables under the `bookshop` database, use the [`SHOW TABLES`](/common/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-tables.md#show-full-tables) statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view all tables under the `bookshop` database, use the [`SHOW TABLES`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-tables.md#show-full-tables) statement.
```

+--------------------+
```

> ## Guidelines to follow when creating tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Guidelines to follow when creating a table
```

> ### Guidelines to follow when naming a table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section provides guidelines you need to follow when creating a table.

### Guidelines to follow when naming a table
```

> - Use a **fully-qualified** table name (for example, `CREATE TABLE {database_name}. {table_name}`). This is because when you do not specify a database name, TiDB will use the current database in your **SQL session**. If you do not use `USE {databasename};` to specify the database in your SQL session, TiDB will return an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a **fully-qualified** table name (for example, `CREATE TABLE {database_name}. {table_name}`). If you do not specify the database name, TiDB uses the current database in your **SQL session**. If you do not use `USE {databasename};` to specify the database in your SQL session, TiDB returns an error.
```

- Use meaningful table names. For example, if you need to create a user table, you can use names: `user`, `t_user`,`users`, or follow your company or organization's naming convention. If your company or organization does not have a naming convention, you can refer to the [table naming convention](/develop/dev-guide-object-naming-guidelines.md#table-naming-convention). Do not use such table names as: `t1`, `table1`.
- Multiple words are separated by an underscore, and it is recommended that the name is no more than 32 characters.
- Create a separate `DATABASE` for tables of different business modules and add comments accordingly.

### Guidelines to follow when defining columns

> - Check the [data types](/basic-features.md#data-types-functions-and-operators) of the supporting columns and organize your data according to the data type restrictions. Select the appropriate type for the data you plan to be present in the column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the [data types](/basic-features.md#data-types-functions-and-operators) supported by columns and organize your data according to the data type restrictions. Select the appropriate type for the data you plan to store in the column.
```

### Guidelines to follow when selecting primary key

- Define a **primary key** or **unique index** within the table.
- Try to select meaningful **columns** as **primary keys**.
- For performance reasons, try to avoid storing extra-wide tables. It is not recommended that the number of table fields is over `60` and that the total data size of a single row is over `64K`. It is recommended to split fields with too much data length to another table.
- It is not recommended to use complex data types.
- For the fields to be joined, ensure that the data types are consistent and avoid implicit conversion.
- Avoid defining **primary keys** on a single monotonic data column. If you use a single monotonic data column (for example, a column with the `AUTO_INCREMENT` attribute) to define the **primary key**, it might impact the write performance. If possible, use `AUTO_RANDOM` instead of `AUTO_INCREMENT`, which discards the continuous and incremental attribute of the primary key.

> - If you really need to create an index on a single monotonic data column at write-intensive scenarios, instead of defining this monotonic data column as the **primary key**, you can use `AUTO_RANDOM` to create the **primary key** for that table, or use [`SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS`](/shard-row-id-bits.md) and [`PRE_SPLIT_REGIONS`](/common/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md#pre_split_regions) to shard `_tidb_rowid`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you really need to create an index on a single monotonic data column at write-intensive scenarios, instead of defining this monotonic data column as the **primary key**, you can use `AUTO_RANDOM` to create the **primary key** for that table, or use [`SHARD_ROW_ID_BITS`](/shard-row-id-bits.md) and [`PRE_SPLIT_REGIONS`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-split-region.md#pre_split_regions) to shard `_tidb_rowid`.
```

### Guidelines to follow when selecting clustered index

> - Following the [guidelines for selecting primary key](#guidelines-to-follow-when-selecting-primary-key), **Clustered indexes** will be built based on **primary keys**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow [guidelines for selecting primary key](#guidelines-to-follow-when-selecting-primary-key) to build **clustered indexes**.
```

    - When a query with a range condition only involves the primary key, the clustered index reduces multiple reads of index data from the network.
    - When a query with an equivalent or range condition only involves the primary key prefix, the clustered index reduces multiple reads of index data from the network.
- On the other hand, tables with clustered indexes might have the following issues:
    - There might be write hotspot issues when you insert a large number of primary keys with close values. Follow the [guidelines to follow when selecting primary key](#guidelines-to-follow-when-selecting-primary-key).
    - The table data takes up more storage space if the data type of the primary key is larger than 64 bits, especially when there are multiple secondary indexes.

- To control the [default behavior of whether to use clustered indexes](/clustered-indexes.md#create-a-table-with-clustered-indexes), you can explicitly specify whether to use clustered indexes instead of using the system variable `@@global.tidb_enable_clustered_index` and the configuration `alter-primary-key`.

### Guidelines to follow when executing the `CREATE TABLE` statement

> - It is not recommended to use a client-side Driver or ORM to perform database schema changes. It is recommended to use a [MySQL client](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql.html) or use a GUI client you like to perform database schema changes. In this document,the **MySQL client** is used to pass in SQL files to perform database schema changes in most scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is not recommended to use a client-side Driver or ORM to perform database schema changes. It is recommended to use a [MySQL client](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql.html) or use a GUI client to perform database schema changes. In this document, the **MySQL client** is used to pass in SQL files to perform database schema changes in most scenarios.
```

> - Following the SQL development [specification for table build and delete](/develop/dev-guide-sql-development-specification.md#specification-for-table-build-and-delete), it is recommended to wrap the build and delete statements inside the business application to add judgment logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow the SQL development [specification for table build and delete](/develop/dev-guide-sql-development-specification.md#specification-for-table-build-and-delete). It is recommended to wrap the build and delete statements inside the business application to add judgment logic.
```

## One more step

> Note that all the tables that have been created in this document do not contain secondary indexes. For a guide to adding secondary indexes, refer to [Creating Secondary Indexes](/develop/dev-guide-create-secondary-indexes.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that all the tables that have been created in this document do not contain secondary indexes. For a guide to add secondary indexes, refer to [Creating Secondary Indexes](/develop/dev-guide-create-secondary-indexes.md).
```
